Java practise test --------

1) Compile time error - Detected while writing code, usually syntax error. Can be fixed while coding
   Runtime error - Detected while running the code. These has to do with exceptions.

2) For collections like List, ArrayList -  Without overriding equals() method, objects can not be removed from the list because comparisions will be drawn out between the instance variable of the two objects, which are always unique. Remove does not remove all occurance of the object. It just removes the first occurance of it. Does not remove duplciates.
NOTE - remove(Object) will return boolean. remove(index) will return removed object.
removeIf(Predicate<T> p) traverses through the list and removes all the items that satisfies the condition mentioned in the predicate. It returns a boolean.

3) If we call the main method inside the main method - Stack over flow error occurs as the main method is called repeatedly without completion of execution.
args array is of length 0. If the class is compiled and called using cmd, then we can add items to args array of main method.
Values can be assigned to existing elements of args array inside main method. NOTE - If the array is empty, elements can not be added to that array in the program.

4) array declarations -
int[] arr[] = new int[size][]
int arr[][] = new int[size][]
int[][] arr = new int[size][]
int[] arr[] = new int[size][size]
int arr[][] = new int[size][size]
int[][] arr = new int[size][size]
int[] arr = new int[size]
int arr[] = new int[size]
int arr[] = new int[] {val1, val2} // only 2 elements would be assigned to this array
int[] arr = new int[] {val1, val2} // only 2 elements would be assigned to this array

FYI - int[] array is java-style, int arr[] is C-style of array declaration.

5) Checked vs Unchecked exceptions -
Checked exceptions are the ones IDE recognises and gives out suggestions to modify without which a compile time error is thrown. Syntax error, IOException,
Unchecked exceptions are those exceptions that occur during runtime such as ArrayOutOfBound, StackOverFlow, NullPointerException, etc
Checked exception can not be caught without having a code in try block that is vulnarable to cause that exception. If a checked exception is caught using try-catch without any part of code in try block that might result in causing that exception, a compilation error occurs.
NOTE - Exception and Error are both subclass of Throwable class.
RuntimeException, Error and all their subclasses are Unchecked exceptions.
All other subclass of Throwable class is checked exception.....
https://www.benchresources.net/interview-question-and-answer-on-exception-handling-in-java/
For multiple catch clauses - lower most child must come first followed by higher ones.
NOTE - If a method throws checked exception, it must be caught using try-catch or it must be propagated using throws clause.
If a method throws unchecked exception or errors, it may not be caught or propagated.
For user defined exceptions, if it extends from a checked exception, it must be caught, else it may not be caught or propagated.
NOTE - If an exception is thrown manually using the throw keyword, the mothod should declare to throw that exception, Else compile-time error will occur.

IMPORTANT - throw clause can be used to propagate exceptions manually. It is helpful in case of checked exceptions propagation.
In case of checked exception, propagated exceptions must be handled, otherwise it would result in compile-time exception.
Checked exceptions does not have automatic propagation as in the case of unchecked exceptions. If an exception is propagated using throw keyword, the enclosing method must declare to throw (use throws) the checked exception.
In Short - Throw must be used with Throws.

6) Local Date, time and Period are final classes and they can not be extended.
Period is used to assign a LocalDate value. It can be used to add/minus date from a LocalDtae object.
To check if 2 LocalDate objects are equal, use .isEquals(LocalDate) method. == and .equals() will not give accurate result.
M represents Month, m rep minutes, D rep Day of the year, d rep day of the month.
LocalDate. LocatTime, LocalDateTime and Period is immutable.
LocalDate. LocatTime, LocalDateTime and Period constructor is private. Objects of LocalDate, LocatTime, LocalDateTime and Period can not be created using new keyword.
Period -  https://www.javatpoint.com/java-period

7) If an interface is implemented by an abstract class, it need not override methods declared in the interface but the class extending the abstract class must override methods of the interface. Or few methods can be overriden in the abstract class and the rest can be overriden in the extending class.
If a class implements an interface, it must override all the abstract(non-specified) methods of the interface.

8) Access modifier not defined will be package protected, visible only within package.
Objects can be modified by passing it to another method. Because it is pass-by-reference.

9) If the parent class has an overloading constructor, the child class MUST call super(parameter) method in its constructor. The parameter entered must match the variable type taken by the parent class constructor.
A constructor can call another constructor using this(value) and not by calling the constructor by name.

10) In catch clause of try-catch block, FileNotFoundException exception must be caught first followed by IOException.
There is an hirarchy followed for catch clause "Child followed by Parent".

11) Access modifiers and static keyword in method definition can be interchanged.
Access modifiers can not be used within a method. It has to be outside method and inside class.

12) While using if else-if condition, variable declared outside the condition without initialization and refered to after the condition will throw a compile-time exception.
Because - there is a possibility that the variable may not be assigned any value and since it is not initialized, it will be an empty variable in the stack.

13) Strings are immutable. A string can not be edited and the referring object will not refer to the updated string.
StringBuilders are mutable unlike Strings. StringBuilder does not override equals() method. String and StringBuilder overrides toString() method.
StringBuilder's replace method accepts 3 arguments.

14) Parameters - If an object is passed as parameter, it is pass-by-reference.
If primitive types are passed as parameters, it is pass-by-value.
Premmitive types can not hold null in them.

15) Constructors can not return void or anything else. It must not be declared.
We can have methods with the same name as class with void return type and these are not constructors.

16) Static blocks are executed when the class is being loaded onto JVM. psvm method is called later, after the class is loaded on to the JVM.
If static block throws an exception or if it is in an infinite loop, psvm method will not be executed.
static blocks can be used to initialize the class before main method is called. It is used to initialise static variables at the begining.
special main method must have "public static void" and it should accept a String[] as parameter. It can also be "final" and parameter can be "String..."
An exception can be thrown only if the method definition specifies a throws action.

17) Switch statement needs break statement for every case without which the flow would continue to the following case till it reaches a break statement or end of switch statement.
If default is placed at the begining of switch statement and there are no matching case and break statement, all the cases would be executed starting with default.
If default is placed at the end of switch statement and there are no matching case and break statement, default would be executed and end of switch statement would be reached.
NOTE - switch statement accepts - enums, string and premitive types - byte, long, int, short and their wrappers.
		It does not accept double and boolean.

VERY TRICKY
18) Strings assigned a constant expression such as "string literals or final" will be computed at "compile-time". All strings computed at compile time will be refered by "String pool"
These string objects in string pool will not have duplicates and in the following case, they are refered to as a single object.
String s1 = "Arvind";
String s2 = "Arvind" + "";
Both s1 and s2 variables refer to "Arvind" with in the string pool as they are computed at compile time.
Therefore, s1 == s2 will be true.
If s2 = s1 + ""; then s2 will be computed at run-time since it is a dynamic variable. Therefore, in this case, s1 == s2 will be false.
NOTE - String s = new String("Some string value") will create a string object in string-pool and in non-pool location.

NOTE
19) Parent class object can not be assigned to a child class object using casting. It will throw a run-time exception - ClassCastException.

20) An array of premitive type is initialized to their respective 0. An array of Object type is initialized to null.
If isEmpty() is called on an element of object array, it will throw a NullPointerException at runtime.

21) While using iterator, we should avoid modifying the collections. If there is an absolute need to modify the collections, it should be done using the iterator.add and remove
methods and not using the colections.add or remove methods as it will result in ConcurrentModificationException.
Within a treaditional for loop, a collection object can be modified.
This is however not possible in case of for-each loop or while using iterator (While using iterator, we must use the iterator's remove() method to remove an element from the list)

22) If a class "One" extends another class "Two" from a different package and there are 2 variables of which one is protected. We must use this. or super. to access that protected variable if getters are not available.

NOTE - what is sent to parameter of main method.
23) Using cmd for compiling and running a program, javac Name.java - compiles the java file.
java Name One Two Three - Here One, Two and Three are the arguments passed on to the main method's parameters.
It can be assessed inside the main method using the usual array operations.
Main method argument can be an array[] or array...

24) List can have any number of null.
If we add an element to any location leaving the head blank, it will throw IndexOutOfBoundException at runtime.

25) Constructors can have either super(value) or this(value) and not both of them. They must be the first statement inside a child's constructor.
If a class does not extend any other class and if super() method without any argument is called, the super is referring to the Object class's constructor.

26) Top-level Classes can not be declared private or protected. Inner-classes can be declared private or protected.
Protected methods and variables are accessable within the package and by the subclasses in any package.
No access modifier methods and variables are accessable only within the package.
When a class extends another, the overriding methods must have a same/higher permissive access modifier than the parent's method

NOTE - Very important. Tricky Question.
27) When adding int to a List<Integer>, the values are auto-boxed. If the value of int is between -128 and 127, it will not create duplicate objects in the heap.
Instead it will refer to the same objects in the Heap. But for objects outside the mentioned range, it will create new objects in the heap.
Character value below 127, Boolean, Byte and Short follow the same principle.

28) Call to the overloading method with parameter - The call will be made to the method whose parameter is lowest in the hierarchy.
example - parameters are of type Object, CharSequence, String - overloading method wil be mapped to the method whose parameter is of type String.
If null is passed as parameter and if there are multiple same level(sibling objects) parameters, Compile-time error will occur.

29) Checked exceptions can not be assigned to try-catch without relevance. FileNotFoundException must be used when there is File based operation.
If a method is throwing an exception within it, it must declare to throw exception in the definition itself. Otherwise will cause compile-time error.
Can not have a checked exception without having a possibility of its occurance (without being thrown)

30) If an expressiion is computed at compile time, then object == object is true. All string literals, final variables and premitive types are computed at compile time.
If an expression is computed at run-time, then object == object is false. All objects are computed at run-time.
NOTE - In case of a string concatination, all static concatinations (final variable, string literals, primitive types) are refered from string poll.

NOTE - Remember to watch out for short-circuit operations in equations. They will not be evaluated. Imagine if, if-else look to find its logic.

31) Order of presedence in JAVA - https://introcs.cs.princeton.edu/java/11precedence/

32) Generic syntax do not follow sub-class super-class relationship
EX - List<Animal> a = nw ArrayList<Dog>() will not compile.

33) if the parameter of the method is - (char... word), then word will be an array of char, we can input as many char as possible.
NOTE - If the overloading methods have Byte and byte... as parameters, Byte someName will be evaluated ahead of byte... otherName.

34) bitwise operator for boolean give out the following results -
	a) & - LHS and RHS are both true - evaluates to true, else evaluates to false.
	b) | - LHS and RHS are both false - evaluates to false, else evaluates to true.
	c) ^ - LHS and RHS are both different - evaluates to true, else evaluates to false.


35) A variable without any access modifiers in an interface is public, static and final as all variables are explicitly public static final if declared otherwise.
It can be accessed without creating a reference variable of the interface. It can also be accessed by reference variable using the dot operator.
Methods without any modifiers in an interface is public, abstract if the method has no definition.

36) It is possible to have same name (small letters) for package, class, variable, methods, constructor.
If new keyword is not used to call the constructor of a class within the same class, it will not be invoked.

37) Static variables can be accessed with-in a non static method of the same class by using (can be accessed just by itself also) this. keyword although it is not a good practise.
It can also be accessed using ClassName.
Static methods do not support the use of this. and super. inside the method.
NOTE - Very Important
Static methods can access only static variable but instance methods can access both instance variable and static variable.
Static variable of an interface can be accessed using the reference variable of interface, reference variable of implementation and using the name of the interface and implementation.
Static method of an interface can only be accessed using the name of the interface. It can not be referred using its reference variable, the implementation's reference variable and the implementing class name.
Static variable of a class can be accessed using reference variable of parent class, child class and using the name of the parent class and child class.
Static method of a class can be accessed using reference variable of parent class, child class and using the name of the parent class and child class.
NOTE -
	Example - interface Parent, impl class Child. Parent has a static method run(). It can be accessed only by using Parent.run() and can not be accessed using Child.run, Parent p = new Child(); p.run(), Child c = new Child(); c.run().
	Example - class Parent, class Child. Parent has a static method eat(). It can be accesses using Parent.eat(), Child.eat(), Parent p = new Parent(); p.eat(), Child c = new Child(); c.eat().
Static methods can be overloaded but it can not be overridden (It can be re-defined in the child class). It does not throw compilation or runtime error, it simply ignores the overriden method and calls the method belonging to the reference variable.
Static methods can not just differ by keyword static while overloading, it throws a compile-time error.

38) Instances can not be instantiated. Array of Instance can be created using the new keyword but size of the array must be instantiated in the declaration itself.

39) public static final (explicitly defined) variables of an interface can be referred using referrence variables.
Example - interface Parentable, class Child implements Parentable and Parent interface has a variable name. This variable can be accessed as follows -
Parentable parent = new Child(); parent.name;

40) In an interface, Default methods are public if no access modifiers are provided. If a class implements multiple interfaces that has the same default method then the implementing class must override those default methods. LOGIC - the implementing class will not know which default method to inherit from the multiple interfaces.
NOTE - Default method can be declared only in interfaces. Default method can call static method just like calling other methods within the same interface.
ALL abstract, static, default methods in an interface are implicitly public. All constant variables are public, static, final in an interface.

41)	a) A catch clause can have multiple exceptions seperated by "|". But those exceptions must not be related - child-parent because first exception may be caught and the second one
	will be caught again.
	Example - IOException and SQLException are not related, therefore - catch(IOException | SQLException) is compilable.
	NOTE - Overriding methods may or may not throw runtime exception. If the overriden method throws a run-time exception/errors then the overriding method must not
	throw a checked exception such as IOException, FileNotFoundException, SQLException, etc.

	b) If a catch block handles more than one exception type, then the catch parameter is implicitly final. It can not be assigned another value.
	Example - catch(IOException | SQLException er) { er = new IOException } - here er is final variable and causes compile-time error if a value is assigned to it.
	NOTE - For multiple catch clauses, the unchecked exceptions variable can be assigned value cos its not final variable. But for checked exceptions, calues can not be assigned.

	c)	Exception ex can be used to catch all its subclasses mentioned in throws clause.

42) Static methods can be accessed by their class/interface name.
Instance variable of a parent class can access its static methods. But instance variable of child class can not access its static methods.
This is very confusing. Be very careful.
NOTE - An instance method can not override static method and a static method can not hide instance method.
In a child class, we can overload the methods inherited from parent. Such overloaded methods neither hide nor override the parent methods — they are new methods, unique to child class.

In classes, static methods can not be re-declared in child class as non-static method and vice-versa.
Here are the possibilities parent-child interface -
default to abstract - YES
abstract to default - YES
static to default - YES
static to abstract - YES
abstract to static - YES
default to static - No, becuase instance method can not be overriden to static.

			Interface 											Impl class							Result
1) public static void do(){}						 		public void do(){}				 		 WORKS
2) default void do(){}									public static void do(){}				Compile-time error, becuase static method can not override instance method.
3) void do()											public static void do(){}				Compile-time error, becuase static method can not override instance method.
4) public static void do(){}									void do(){}						Not possible because impl class is not abstract.

			Parent class 										Child class							Result
1) public static void do(){}								public void do(){}					Compile-time error, becuase instance method can not be overriden to static.
2) public void do(){}									public static void do(){}				Compile-time error, becuase static method can not override instance method.
3) public abstract void do()							public static void do(){}				Compile-time error, becuase static method can not override instance method.
4) public static void do(){}							public abstract void do()				Not possible because impl class is not abstract.

NOTE - IMPORTANT - Static method inside an interface can not refernce a non-static method of the same interface.
But a non-static method within an interface can refer to the static method of the same interface.

TO REMEMBER 1) I-to-I (Everything is allowed except default to static)													(I-I-D-S) I-I = DS
			2) C-to-C (Nothing is allowed) instance method can be overriden to static method and vice-versa				(C-C-Nothing)
			3) I-to-C (Nothing is allowed except static to non-static)													(I-C-S-NS) I-C = SNS

43) ARM - Automatic Resource Management is part of Java 1.7 and it is used to handle resource within try-catch block. The resources are managed when the compiler reaches the end
of the try-catch block. Only those resources that are passed in as arguments to the try block.
NOTE - All resources must implement AutoClosable interface. All resources passed in as argument are implicitly final and can not be reassigned within the block. We can assign multiple resources using semicolon within the try block argument.

44) Rules for exception declaration in overriding methods - https://www.benchresources.net/rules-for-exception-handling-w-r-t-method-overriding-in-java/
	When parent-class method declares no exception, then child-class overriding-method can declare,
		1. No exception or
		2. Any number of unchecked exception or errors
		3. but strictly no checked exception (Can not throw "Exception" itself as it is parent of both checked and unchecked)
	When parent-class method declares unchecked exception, then child-class overriding-method can declare,
		1. No exception or
		2. Any number of unchecked exception or errors
		3. but strictly no checked exception (Can not throw "Exception" itself as it is parent of both checked and unchecked)
	When parent-class method declares checked exception, then child-class overriding-method can declare,
		1. No exception or
		2. Same checked exception or
		3. Sub-type of checked exception or
		4. any number of unchecked exception
	NOTE - Exception can not be declared to be thrown by an overriding method if the overridden method does not throw checked exception.

45) Static variables can be accessed without creating an objects, using the new keyword.
Example - If an array of objects are initialised to hold n elements in it. For-each loop traversing through it to fetch each element can be used to call the static variable of the object eventhough all elements are pointing at null.

46) Objects class can not be instantiated because its constructor is a private constructor. It throws a compile-time error.
But Object class can be instantiated. Its constructor is public constructor.

47) To call a default method (of interface OFCOURSE) We must use this syntax - InterfaceName.super.DefaultMethodName

48) Overriding variables in the child class hides the variable in the parent class. There is no rule for this (access modifiers, type can vary)
NOTE - These variables will be assigned its values after the constructor calls and executes super().
The reference type determines the calling variable.

IMPORTANT NOTE - Overriden(variables are not truly overriden) variables will call the value based on the reference type.
However, a child reference can call parents variable.

49) Static method of an interface can be accessed only by using the interface name.
	Static method of an abstract class can be accessed by its name, reference object, reference object of its child and class name of its child.
	Static variable of an interface can be accessed by using interface name and its reference variable.

50) If an interface extends another interface, overrides its method and a class implements both the interfaces, The class will access the child interface's overriden method even if the reference type is of parent interface.

51) Sub class and super class -
	a) Sub class reference can call overriden methods, Super class methods and Sub class methods
	b) Super class reference can call overriden method and Super class method only.
	c) Super class reference pointing at Sub class instance can call the overriden method (will call the Sub class version) and Super class method only.

NOTE - In short, reference variables will call the overriden method,
	   If method is not overriden, it will call method from itself.
	   If method is not declared in it, it will call method from its parent. In this order.

	Scenarios -
	1) Super sup = new Sub(), orm() is overriden. sup.orm() will call the orm() of Sub class.
	2) Super sup = new Super(), orm() is overriden, sup.orm() will call the orm() of Super class.
	3) Sub sup = new Sub(), orm() is overriden, sup.orm() will call the orm() of Sub class.

	4) Super sup = new Super(), snorm() is not overriden and belongs to Super class, sup.snorm() will call the snorm() from Super class.
	5) Super sup = new Sub(), snorm() is not overriden and belongs to Super class, sup.snorm() will call the snorm() from Super class.
	6) Sub sup = new Sub(), snorm() is not overriden and belongs to Super class, sup.snorm() will call the snorm() from Super class.

	7) Sub sup = new Sub(), norm() is not overriden and belongs to Sub class, sup.norm() will call the norm() from Sub class.
	8) Super sup = new Sub(), norm() is not overriden and belongs to Sub class, can not call the methods of Sub class.
	9) Super sup = new Super(), norm() is not overriden and belongs to Sub class, can not call the methods of Sub class.

52) char aa = 'a' will assign a to char.
	char aa = 97 will assign the ascii value of 97 which is 'a' to char.
